what is the problem with content
marketing oh generating content
consistently no this is a terrible
answer I actually don't believe this at
all and uh if you've checked out the
state of discontent which is which is
Tommy Walker's uh survey whoops state of
discontent uh you would know that that
is not the thing content marketers or
their bosses teams or clients are
complaining about the problem with
content in content marketing is that we
as an industry are not producing the
right content that reaches the right
people in the right places with the
right message that's it full stop and I
want to show you why I believe this is
true I think the problem is obsession
with this graph obsession with where
does traffic come from people look at
this and they see that the web's largest
traffic referers in 2024 are Google and
Microsoft and B and then YouTube and
then everything else is 25% or less and
what they should be thinking about what
we should be thinking about is this
where people spend their time where they
consume content and that is on social
media websites and it is in productivity
apps and channels and sites and it's on
news websites and from Publishers and
it's on e-commerce sites and in video
and audio platforms and financial news
platforms and on gaming websites and
government an need you all these places
are where attention is paid and where
people form the opinions that they have
the thoughts that they're curious about
the brands that they prefer the products
that they're interested in the services
they might buy it's happening here it is
not just happening in the sites that
send directly measurable in attributable
traffic look look look I was uh helping
someone find
where they can reach Transit Engineers
on the internet and Transit Engineers I
don't I don't know anything about this
field but apparently these websites are
places where they can be found and so
conceivably my job is not to create
content on my website that can rank for
keywords my job is to be present on
these websites with ads with content
with messages with sponsorships with
Partnerships if I really want to go
after keywords well I might expand to
some of these but also I might consider
the fact that these social networks are
used more or less by this audience
YouTube and Facebook are actually a
little smaller than the US average
population LinkedIn is way bigger with
Transit Engineers Reddit and Twitter are
a little bit bigger so is Kora if I
wanted I could dive in here and look at
the Affinity change and see that
substack and slack and SlideShare and
medium are overused as a percentage by
this group I could I could do the same
thing for any specific Channel too and
so I just want want to say I don't I
don't think the problem with content is
creation it is distribution it is
obsession with this idea that we have to
focus on where traffic comes from rather
than where people pay attention